README.md, before:

# Django Altcha

**Django Altcha** is a Django library that provides easy integration of Altcha CAPTCHA
into your Django forms, enhancing user verification with configurable options.

By default, CAPTCHA validation operates in a **fully self-hosted mode**, 
**eliminating the need for external services** while ensuring privacy and control over
the verification process.

**Django Altcha** is **secure by default**, featuring built-in 
**protection against replay attacks** to ensure each challenge is validated only once. 
This helps safeguard your forms from repeated or spoofed submissions without 
requiring additional configuration.

## Installation

1. **Install the package:**

   ```bash
   pip install django-altcha
   ```

2. **Add to `INSTALLED_APPS`:**

   Update your Django project's `settings.py`:

   ```python
   INSTALLED_APPS = [
       # Other installed apps
       "django_altcha",
   ]
   ```

3. **Set your secret HMAC key:**
   
   This key is used to HMAC-sign ALTCHA challenges and **must be kept secret**.
   Treat it like a password: use a secure, 64-character hex string.

   Update your Django project's `settings.py`:

   ```python
   ALTCHA_HMAC_KEY="your_secret_hmac_key"
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> You can generate a new secured HMAC key using:
> ``python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(64))"``


## Usage

### Adding the CAPTCHA Field to Your Form

To add the Altcha CAPTCHA field to a Django form, import `AltchaField` and add it to
your form definition:

```python
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField()
```

## Configuration Options

You can pass configuration options to `AltchaField` that are supported by Altcha.
These options are documented at
[Altcha's website integration guide](https://altcha.org/docs/website-integration/).

### Example with additional options:

```python
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField(
        floating=True,   # Enables floating behavior
        debug=True,      # Enables debug mode (for development)
        # Additional options supported by Altcha
    )
```

### Register a URL to Provide the Challenge

By default, challenge data is generated by the `AltchaField` and embedded directly 
into the rendered HTML using the `challengejson` option.

Alternatively, you can provide a URL that the Altcha widget’s JavaScript will fetch to 
retrieve the challenge, using the `challengeurl` option.

This approach is especially useful for enabling features like `refetchonexpire`, 
which **only work** when using a `challengeurl` (not `challengejson`).

A ready-to-use `AltchaChallengeView` is available in `django_altcha`. 
To enable it, register the view in your `urlpatterns`, for example:

```python
from django.urls import path
from django_altcha import AltchaChallengeView

urlpatterns += [
    path("altcha/challenge/", AltchaChallengeView.as_view(), name="altcha_challenge"),
]
```

Once the URL is registered, you can configure your `AltchaField` to use it via the 
`challengeurl` option:

```python
from django.urls import reverse_lazy
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField(
        challengeurl=reverse_lazy("altcha_challenge"),
    )
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can customize the challenge generation by passing options directly when 
> registering the view.
> For example: ``AltchaChallengeView.as_view(max_number=2000000)``

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve this library.
Feel free to submit issues or pull requests!

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.
See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add a ``ALTCHA_VERIFICATION_ENABLED`` setting (#17)
* Add ALTCHA_ENABLED variable to disable altcha checking for certain forms, e.g. during local development or testing

* Rename to ALTCHA_VERIFICATION_ENABLED and add documentation #14

Signed-off-by: tdruez <tdruez@nexb.com>

* Add unit test for the ALTCHA_VERIFICATION_ENABLED setting #14

Signed-off-by: tdruez <tdruez@nexb.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: tdruez <tdruez@nexb.com>
Co-authored-by: Martin Pauly <mail@martinpauly.de>

README.md, after:

# Django Altcha

**Django Altcha** is a Django library that provides easy integration of Altcha CAPTCHA
into your Django forms, enhancing user verification with configurable options.

By default, CAPTCHA validation operates in a **fully self-hosted mode**, 
**eliminating the need for external services** while ensuring privacy and control over
the verification process.

**Django Altcha** is **secure by default**, featuring built-in 
**protection against replay attacks** to ensure each challenge is validated only once. 
This helps safeguard your forms from repeated or spoofed submissions without 
requiring additional configuration.

## Installation

1. **Install the package:**

   ```bash
   pip install django-altcha
   ```

2. **Add to `INSTALLED_APPS`:**

   Update your Django project's `settings.py`:

   ```python
   INSTALLED_APPS = [
       # Other installed apps
       "django_altcha",
   ]
   ```

3. **Set your secret HMAC key:**
   
   This key is used to HMAC-sign ALTCHA challenges and **must be kept secret**.
   Treat it like a password: use a secure, 64-character hex string.

   Update your Django project's `settings.py`:

   ```python
   ALTCHA_HMAC_KEY="your_secret_hmac_key"
   ```

> [!NOTE]
> You can generate a new secured HMAC key using:
> ``python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(64))"``


## Usage

### Adding the CAPTCHA Field to Your Form

To add the Altcha CAPTCHA field to a Django form, import `AltchaField` and add it to
your form definition:

```python
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField()
```

## Configuration Options

You can pass configuration options to `AltchaField` that are supported by Altcha.
These options are documented at
[Altcha's website integration guide](https://altcha.org/docs/website-integration/).

### Example with additional options:

```python
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField(
        floating=True,   # Enables floating behavior
        debug=True,      # Enables debug mode (for development)
        # Additional options supported by Altcha
    )
```

### Register a URL to Provide the Challenge

By default, challenge data is generated by the `AltchaField` and embedded directly 
into the rendered HTML using the `challengejson` option.

Alternatively, you can provide a URL that the Altcha widget’s JavaScript will fetch to 
retrieve the challenge, using the `challengeurl` option.

This approach is especially useful for enabling features like `refetchonexpire`, 
which **only work** when using a `challengeurl` (not `challengejson`).

A ready-to-use `AltchaChallengeView` is available in `django_altcha`. 
To enable it, register the view in your `urlpatterns`, for example:

```python
from django.urls import path
from django_altcha import AltchaChallengeView

urlpatterns += [
    path("altcha/challenge/", AltchaChallengeView.as_view(), name="altcha_challenge"),
]
```

Once the URL is registered, you can configure your `AltchaField` to use it via the 
`challengeurl` option:

```python
from django.urls import reverse_lazy
from django import forms
from django_altcha import AltchaField

class MyForm(forms.Form):
    captcha = AltchaField(
        challengeurl=reverse_lazy("altcha_challenge"),
    )
```

> [!NOTE]
> You can customize the challenge generation by passing options directly when 
> registering the view.
> For example: ``AltchaChallengeView.as_view(max_number=2000000)``

## Settings

### ALTCHA_HMAC_KEY

**Required.** This key is used to HMAC-sign ALTCHA challenges and **must be kept secret**.

### ALTCHA_JS_URL

URL location of the Altcha JavaScript file.
Default to the django-altcha embedded file.

### ALTCHA_VERIFICATION_ENABLED

Set to `False` to skip Altcha validation altogether.

### ALTCHA_CHALLENGE_EXPIRE

Challenge expiration duration in milliseconds.
Default to 20 minutes as per Altcha security recommendations.
See https://altcha.org/docs/v2/security-recommendations/

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve this library.
Feel free to submit issues or pull requests!

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.
See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.
