docs/source/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============

Installation Steps
------------------

1. **Install the package:**

   .. code-block:: bash

       pip install django-altcha

2. **Add to `INSTALLED_APPS`:**

   Update your Django project's `settings.py`:

   .. code-block:: python

       INSTALLED_APPS = [
           # Other installed apps
           "django_altcha",
       ]

Usage
-----

Adding the CAPTCHA Field to Your Form
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add the Altcha CAPTCHA field to a Django form, import `AltchaField` and add it to
your form definition:

.. code-block:: python

   from django import forms
   from django_altcha import AltchaField

   class MyForm(forms.Form):
       captcha = AltchaField()

Configuration Options
---------------------

You can pass configuration options to `AltchaField` that are supported by Altcha.
These options are documented at
`Altcha's website integration guide <https://altcha.org/docs/website-integration/>`_.

Example with additional options:

.. code-block:: python

   class MyForm(forms.Form):
       captcha = AltchaField(
           floating=True,   # Enables floating behavior
           debug=True,      # Enables debug mode (for development)
           # Additional options supported by Altcha
       )

Commit message:

Add the ``ALTCHA_HMAC_KEY`` setup as part of the installation #15 (#16)
Signed-off-by: tdruez <tdruez@nexb.com>

docs/source/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============

1. **Install the package:**

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install django-altcha

2. **Add to INSTALLED_APPS:**

Update your Django project's ``settings.py``:

.. code-block:: python

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        # Other installed apps
        "django_altcha",
    ]

3. **Set your secret HMAC key:**

This key is used to HMAC-sign ALTCHA challenges and **must be kept secret**.

**Treat it like a password**: use a secure, 64-character hex string.

Update your Django project's ``settings.py``:

.. code-block:: python

    ALTCHA_HMAC_KEY="your_secret_hmac_key"

.. note::
    You can generate a new secured HMAC key using:
    ``python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(64))"``

Usage
=====

Adding the CAPTCHA Field to Your Form
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To add a Altcha CAPTCHA field to a Django form, import ``AltchaField`` and add it to
your form definition:

.. code-block:: python

   from django import forms
   from django_altcha import AltchaField

   class MyForm(forms.Form):
       captcha = AltchaField()

Configuration Options
---------------------

You can pass configuration options to ``AltchaField`` that are supported by Altcha.
These options are documented at
`Altcha's website integration guide <https://altcha.org/docs/website-integration/>`_.

Example with additional options:

.. code-block:: python

   class MyForm(forms.Form):
       captcha = AltchaField(
           floating=True,   # Enables floating behavior
           debug=True,      # Enables debug mode (for development)
           # Additional options supported by Altcha
       )
